Documentation/Battle System/Battle_Description.md, before:

# Battle system description

Turn based game, set on hexagonal board. The goal of two opposing players is to eliminate the opponents units.


Units are represented as tokens with visible art and a set of special 'Symbols' on sides.
Starting Placement

Players in subsequent turns place their units on their starting positions. Starting with the Elves faction, Player selects one of his units then chooses one of the starting tiles near his edge of the board. After all units are placed the game begins with the Elven player making the first move.
Movement

Everything in the game revolves around the basic move of the unit. To perform the move active players selects one of his units the chooses a tile next to it which is either:
1 free
2 occupied by the enemy unit with the exception of the scenario in which that enemy unit has a shield pointed at the selected unit.

Then the selected unit first: Rotates toward the target location It's symbols are 'Activated' Then the unit moves to the target location. And for the last time its symbols are activated once again.

### Symbols

Main way to kill enemy units is with the 'Symbols' at the edges of your units. Their effect most of the time affects the unit standing right next to it, with the exception of a bow. We split symbols into 2 categories based on if they work only during the movement of the unit carrying them "ACTIVE". Or if they work all the time "PASSIVE"

#### Active Symbols:

 - Sword - 'Sword' Kills enemy units on an adjacent tile.

 - ARROW - 'Bow' Shoots an arrow that damages the first encountered enemy unit. If the path is blocked by the ally unit, the arrow doesn't travel further.

 - CIRCLE - 'Fist' Pushes enemy unit 1 tile away, if that tile isn't empty or is outside the gameplay area the pushed unit is killed. It's possible to push an enemy unit on top of a tile covered by your spear, in that case the pushed unit is killed. This symbol ignores the shield.

#### Passive Symbols:

 - CROSS - 'Spear' Kills any enemy unit that enters this tile. Spear acts before any enemy unit symbol does (except for a shield). If a unit protected by a shield rotates at the start of its movement while this shield is covering the spear, and at its final rotation position the spear can hit the unit rotation ends with the unit death.

 - TRIANGLE - 'Shield' nullifies sources of damage (doesn't work against push)


#### Notes

[More battle notes](B_structure.md)

Commit message:

Polyspear battle refactor (#102)
* refactor + reorder of functions + comments
* fixed draw system not working 

* fixed spells not reseting properly

* fireball now treats allies the same as owned units

* primitive stalemate detection

* removed unused variable, functions and unused battle presets

* Improved Team Victory screen

* better default preset selection
Contains a visual bug when loading preset - selected preset doesn't modify "selected option" from the preset list selection.

Documentation/Battle System/Battle_Description.md, after:

# Battle system description

Turn based game, set on hexagonal board. The goal of two opposing players is to eliminate the opponents units.


Units are represented as tokens with visible art and a set of special 'Symbols' on sides.
Starting Placement

Players in subsequent turns place their units on their starting positions. Starting with the Elves faction, Player selects one of his units then chooses one of the starting tiles near his edge of the board. After all units are placed the game begins with the Elven player making the first move.
Movement

Everything in the game revolves around the basic move of the unit. To perform the move active players selects one of his units the chooses a tile next to it which is either:
1 free
2 occupied by the enemy unit with the exception of the scenario in which that enemy unit has a shield pointed at the selected unit.

Then the selected unit first: Rotates toward the target location It's symbols are 'Activated' Then the unit moves to the target location. And for the last time its symbols are activated once again.

### Symbols

Main way to kill enemy units is with the 'Symbols' at the edges of your units. Their effect most of the time affects the unit standing right next to it, with the exception of a bow. We split symbols into 2 categories based on if they work only during the movement of the unit carrying them "ACTIVE". Or if they work all the time "PASSIVE"

#### Active Symbols:

 - Sword - 'Sword' Kills enemy units on an adjacent tile.

 - ARROW - 'Bow' Shoots an arrow that damages the first encountered enemy unit. If the path is blocked by the ally unit, the arrow doesn't travel further.

 - CIRCLE - 'Fist' Pushes enemy unit 1 tile away, if that tile isn't empty or is outside the gameplay area the pushed unit is killed. It's possible to push an enemy unit on top of a tile covered by your spear, in that case the pushed unit is killed. This symbol ignores the shield.

#### Passive Symbols:

 - CROSS - 'Spear' Kills any enemy unit that enters this tile. Spear acts before any enemy unit symbol does (except for a shield). If a unit protected by a shield rotates at the start of its movement while this shield is covering the spear, and at its final rotation position the spear can hit the unit rotation ends with the unit death.

 - TRIANGLE - 'Shield' nullifies sources of damage (doesn't work against push)





## Advanced information

Some gameplay systems like mana points for "Cyclone timer" have sometimes to determine who wins a tie.
To determine that all those systems use exact same reason:
Player who is attacked (defender) wins in such scenarios.
But in cases like "Magic Forest Battle" where no one can be declared an attacker. We copy the order based on established in the lobby movee order.
Example: First player is orc - Second Elf, Third - Dwarf. Both during their "1st" turn enter a magic forest.
Orc is first so in any ties he looses, elf as a second wins any ties with orc by looses ties with dwarf.


that better defensive positions 
			# have those players that are later in the array


#### Notes

[More battle notes](B_structure.md)
